# LariatCarRental_Capstone1
**The scenario for this project:** I am consulting as a data analyst for Lariat. They've hired me to make recommendations about how to make **better decisions**, which they measure in terms of the **costs and revenue** generated **by** their **rental car fleet**.

They've provided me with raw data in **four Excel worksheets** in four workbooks:
- *car_id_mapping*: This worksheet contains entries for individual vehicles in the Lariat fleet. This worksheet tells you the make, model, and model year of each vehicle.
- *car_costs*: This worksheet contains data about the costs associated with each car in the fleet. The data is from the most recent year.
- *car_revenue*: This worksheet contains data about individual rental transactions. For each transaction, you'll have data that outlines the total revenue generated by the transaction. You'll also see other details about the renter and the branch location.
- *branch_location*: This worksheet contains information about each local branch of Lariat.

They've asked me to **produce** the following **deliverables** based on the raw data and the business objectives:

- An **Excel model** that they can use to make data-informed decisions about their fleet. This should be based on the **observed costs** **and revenue data** **from their fleet in recent years**.
- A **PowerPoint** deck that provides an **analysis of the problem** and **provides recommendations**.
- A **live presentation** in which you present your findings to a Lariat executive.


Note

In this scenario, I jump straight into exploring the raw data.

# Capstone Personal Notes

### **Goal:**

Make recommendations to help make better decisions in regards to cost and revenue generated by rental car fleet

### Step 1: Ask Clarifying Questions

Q: Net revenue or Gross revenue generated from rental car fleet?

A: Probably **Net revenue**, since the goal is just to make better decisions or being more cost effective.

Q: How is revenue generated and how are customers charged?

A: Price per day of vehicle rented is the revenue and revenue per vehicle differs

Q: What are the costs associated with this company?

A: Monthly car costs and insurance cost

### Step 2: Ask Yourself Questions

- How much **total** **net revenue** was made each month/year?
- How much are the **expenses** of the company each month/year?
- What are effective ways to **increase revenue and cut costs**?
    - **Remove cars** that aren't creating net revenue? (Yes)
        - Cars that make negative net revenue
    - Add more **cars?**
        - Which branches are cars being rented the most?
        - Which models/Make are being rented the most?
        - Which models/make are rented the longest?
    - Increase rental price? (5%, 10%, 15%)
        - How much of an increase for the rental price?
        - What cars should get a boost in price?
            - Cars that get rented for the most days
            - Cars that are rented the most often
            
- What is the median age and gender of customers who rent from company? (Even)
- what is accidents correlated to? (Nothing)

### Step 3: Familiarize yourself with the raw data

- car_id_mapping
    - every car the company owns.
- car_costs
    - monthly cost of each unique car.
- car_revenue
    - record of customer, the car rented, and the amount of revenue made for each rental period.
- branch_location
    - branch location
    

### Step 4: Checking data quality

used "=if(iserror(value), 1, 0))" to check for errors in revenue of car made, car costs and insurance costs

- 274 cars returns error when searched by revenue per day and 196 cars returns error when searched by monthly car cost and insurance cost.
    - This means 78 cars are have not been rented for the past year
    - 196 cars are not owned by company anymore. Therefore, we can remove those.

### Step 5: Building out calculations

- I chose initially to go with **car_id_mapping** because you can easily see the annual and monthly costs and revenue per car model made from there.

**What do we need to calculate?**

- annual net revenue and cost per car.
- Annual net revenue **by location (Pretty average)**
- **Gender of customer for each location (This didn't give much info, very even)**
- average length of days each model is rented for
- Number of days rented correlate to net revenue made

Findings

- Optimizing car renting choices
    - **Newer** **models** were **rented more** often than older models
    - All Cars that make negative net revenue have not been rented much
    - Accidents do not affect net revenue negatively
- On Average, branches in Airports make more net revenue, however, not a big difference
- Price of renting car doesn't correlate to how many days it has been rented for a year
- Accidents on the car did not make a difference to the net revenue

### Step 6: Creating a baseline

**Key metrics**

number of cars

number of cars with negative net revenue

Gross Revenue

Avg gross revenue per car

Avg # of days rented per Car

Insurance Cost

Car Cost

Avg cost per car

Total Cost

Net Revenue

Avg Net Revenue Per Car

### Step 7: Building out parameters to use as inputs
https://github.com/dankimsp/LariatCarRental_Capstone1/blob/main/Capstone_Study_1_LariatCarRental.xlsx
### Step 8: **Format your model**
https://github.com/dankimsp/LariatCarRental_Capstone1/blob/main/Capstone_Study_1_LariatCarRental.xlsx
### Step 9: **Build out the modeled scenarios**
https://github.com/dankimsp/LariatCarRental_Capstone1/blob/main/Capstone_Study_1_LariatCarRental.xlsx
### Step 10: **Add data validation and protected ranges.**
https://github.com/dankimsp/LariatCarRental_Capstone1/blob/main/Capstone_Study_1_LariatCarRental.xlsx
